SEP-24: Make `amount_out` optional in transaction responses (#1520)
stellar/stellar-protocol: ecosystem/sep-0024.md

Author: SDF
Status: Active
Created: 2019-09-18
Updated: 2024-08-07

> Version 3.7.1

Reviewer: Should it be 3.8.0 ?

| `amount_in_asset`         | string              | (optional) The asset received or to be received by the Anchor. Must be present if the deposit/withdraw was made using non-equivalent assets. The value must be in [SEP-38 Asset Identification Format](sep-0038.md#asset-identification-format). See the [Asset Exchanges](#asset-exchanges) section for more information.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |

> | `amount_out`              | string              | (optional) Amount sent by anchor to user at end of transaction as a string with up to 7 decimals. Excludes amount converted to XLM to fund account and any external fees.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |

Reviewer: We should definitely clarify that it's only optional if quote_id is set, and the quote was indicative

> | `amount_out`              | string              | (optional) Amount sent by anchor to user at end of transaction as a string with up to 7 decimals. Excludes amount converted to XLM to fund account and any external fees. This field is not set only when there is an indicative quote associated with this transaction.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |

Reviewer 2: The current wording implies the field shouldn't ever be set for transactions using indicative quotes. My suggestion is a bit wordy but I think its important to highlight that the field should always be set eventually.

```suggestion
| `amount_out`              | string              | (optional) Amount sent by anchor to user at end of transaction as a string with up to 7 decimals. Excludes amount converted to XLM to fund account and any external fees. This field should be set as soon as the anchor can calculate it using `amount_in`, the exchange rate between `amount_in_asset` and `amount_out_asset`, and `fee.total`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
```

Author: Thanks!

1. Removed `external_extra` transaction property since this should all live in a human readable ` more_info_url`.
1. Changed the response of the deposit and withdraw endpoints from 403 to 200 since this is the expected flow.
1. `/transactions` and `/transaction` are now required endpoints.
1. `Transaction` properties `more_info_url, amount_in, amount_out, amount_fee, and stellar_transaction_id` are now

>    non-optional.

Reviewer 2: This `Changes from SEP-6` section isn't comprehensive anymore and its unlikely to be useful given most businesses implement one or the other rather than migrate from SEP-6 to SEP-24.

This is out of scope of the current PR but at some point we should clean up the spec so its more focused.
